ci: use charmcraft test for example charm (#2440)
canonical/operator: docs/howto/write-integration-tests-for-a-charm.md

If you initialised the charm with `charmcraft init`, your charm directory should already contain a  `tests/integration/test_charm.py` file. Otherwise, manually create this directory structure and a test file. You can call the test file anything you like, as long as the name starts with `test_`.

(write-integration-tests-for-a-charm-split-across-modules)=
### Split tests across modules

> As your suite grows, split your integration tests across several `test_*.py` modules, grouped by feature. Tests within a module share a single `juju` fixture (and therefore a single Juju model), so keep tests that need to build on each other together. Across modules, each gets a fresh model, which makes modules independent of each other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As your suite grows, split your integration tests across several `test_*.py` modules, grouped by feature. Tests within a module share a single `juju` fixture (and therefore a single Juju model), so keep tests that need to build on each other together. Each module gets a fresh model, which makes modules independent of each other.
```

A common split:

- `test_charm.py` — smoke tests: pack, deploy, and check the charm reaches active status.

> - `test_<feature>.py` — one module per feature area (for example, `test_backups.py`, `test_tls.py`, `test_upgrade.py`, `test_scaling.py`).

Reviewer: I think the meaning is clear enough from the examples.

```suggestion
- `test_<feature>.py` — for example, `test_backups.py`, `test_tls.py`, `test_upgrade.py`, `test_scaling.py`.
```

> The main reason to split is **parallel CI execution**: each module can run as a separate job, so total wall-clock time is governed by the slowest module rather than the sum of all modules. `tox -e integration` still runs every module sequentially on a single machine; it's the CI matrix (see {ref}`set-up-ci-integration`) that turns module boundaries into parallel jobs. Adding a new `test_*.py` file then automatically adds a new CI job — no workflow changes needed.

Reviewer: I found this a bit confusing. The first example in our CI doc doesn't have a matrix, so new jobs wouldn't automatically be created for each `test_*.py` file, right?

My interpretation is more like this: Use separate modules so that you have the option of using a matrix in CI. If you're going to do that, we recommend using the `charmcraft test` approach described in the CI doc.

Reviewer 2: Nit: I also wonder if it's fair to say that the main reason is parallel CI execution -- isolation of test failures that might otherwise cascade also seems important.

Author: ```suggestion
There are two main benefits to splitting. Firstly, it makes it easier to investigate test failures when they are more isolated. Secondly, it's much simpler to have parallel test execution, where each module runs as a separate job, so total wall-clock time is governed by the slowest module rather than the sum of all modules.

`tox -e integration` runs every module sequentially on a single machine. `charmcraft test` will automatically run each task separately on your local machine, and you can set up a CI matrix (see {ref}`set-up-ci-integration`) that has the same behaviour in CI. Once done, adding a new `test_*.py` file and corresponding task.yaml then automatically adds a new CI job — no workflow changes needed.
```

> For real-world examples of module-per-feature splits, see:

Reviewer: I think this would be easier to read.

```suggestion
For real-world examples of split tests, see:
```

- [postgresql-operator](https://github.com/canonical/postgresql-operator/tree/main/tests/integration) — machine charm, split across many feature modules (backups, TLS, upgrades, HA, and so on).
- [postgresql-k8s-operator](https://github.com/canonical/postgresql-k8s-operator/tree/main/tests/integration) — the Kubernetes equivalent.
- [opensearch-operator](https://github.com/canonical/opensearch-operator/tree/main/tests/integration) — larger suite with per-cloud backup modules.

> For a minimal scaffold that you can lift into your own charm, see the [httpbin-demo](https://github.com/canonical/operator/tree/main/examples/httpbin-demo) example charm in the Ops repository.

Reviewer: Personal preference perhaps 🙂 

```suggestion
For a minimal scaffold that you can use in your own charm, see the [httpbin-demo](https://github.com/canonical/operator/tree/main/examples/httpbin-demo) example charm in the Ops repository.
```
